---
layout: post
title:  "Why?"
date:   2019-08-29
categories: [post]
tag: blog
---
Why am I doing this?  

I'm not entirely sure, but I know that when I write about something, I understand it well. There is a bunch of understanding I get from reading about things, [ankifying](http://augmentingcognition.com/ltm.html) them and even putting them to practice. But nothing comes close to writing about things.  

Writing (the rare few times I have done it), gives me clarity. Often, I am forced to confront the uncomfortable fact that I don't understand something as well as I thought I did. It's probably why I don't write as much as I should. I'm scared that I will realize I don't understand something as well I believe. But that's **exactly** what I need to get better. To improve.  

Why should I improve? I'm not sure I have a straight answer to that. It might be the way I've been brought up, or maybe it's just me, but I can't not want to get better. It just **feels** wrong.  

So, I should write a lot. There are many excuses I make for not writing: I have this fear of putting my thoughts out there. I also have a small streak of a perfectionist where I think many of the things I do aren't "perfect" yet. I'll never write anything if I wait for perfect. So I'm going to put this stuff out there. It's going to be imperfect, it's going to have typos, errors and some poor grammar in there (my usage of commas is random at best). My goal is to write[^1], and I will. Perfection be damned.  

But to be honest, I'm doing this for myself. Whenever I've previously tried to write and put something up on the Internet, there were other reasons. I wanted to share my writing, I wanted to use it as a medium, I wanted to showcase my skills, I thought it'd help me get into a University, I thought it'd help me get a job. I graduated Uni, I got a job. But all of those reasons ensured I never wrote a lot. So I'm just going to do this for myself.  

Some of these posts (like this one) are going to be rambly and ranty to you. Some of them will be clear, simple and maybe even basic to you. But they're all going to be at a place where I'm happy with my understanding of them. That's all I'm hoping to get out of this. That's **why**[^2].  

[^1]: If you're wondering whether you should write, I'm not going to try to convince you. You need to want to write,. Steve Yegge makes a good argument for [why you should write blogs](https://sites.google.com/site/steveyegge2/you-should-write-blogs). [Dan Luu](https://danluu.com/about/) also makes a case that there is always a gap waiting to be filled with your knowledge.  
